From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four, 10 recorded
live Thursday, February 6th, 2014. This episode
of Hansel minutes is brought
to you by Telara offering
the best in developer tools
and support online@telerikdotcomandbyfranklins.net makers of
gesture pack a powerful gesture,
recording and recognition system for
Microsoft connect for windows developers
details at gesture. pak.com in
this episode has got talks
with Dave boils who worked
on the Comcast Xfinity application
for Xbox. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes, and
I'm talking with Dave Voyles.
He used to work at
Comcast on the Xbox apps,
and now works. In fact
for Microsoft, you worked for
Microsoft on the East coast.
Is that right? Correct. I'm
located in Philadelphia. It's probably
pretty snowy there, I assume.
Yeah. Yeah. We've been quite
the Tundra, the whole Northeast
the last couple of weeks.
Yeah. It's snowpocalypse here in
Oregon. Everyone is homesick. And
if w w w if
it wasn't snowing, we'd be
homesick. We're completely snowed in
and there's really no way
to get anywhere. So I
think there's an, there's an
inch of snow. It sounds
just like my household. Yeah.
An interest. No is crippled
Portland. So, so we're playing
on the Xbox today. I
got an X-Box one. I
do have an Xbox three
60, but I bought an
Xbox one. I bit the
bullet on this thing, and
now I have a direct
TV and you worked for
Comcast. And I also see
other kinds of discussion around
TV apps and stuff like
that. What's the default experience
that a person who wants
to watch TV get on
an Xbox, just plugging the
HDI and you tell it,
you know, HTMI pass through
from whoever, whichever cable box
you're currently using into your
Xbox one. And then from
there you're X-Box can detect
which device are you using.
And it can then display
a guide based on the
content available in your area.
Yeah. And I've had a
little bit, it's kind of
a weird experience if you're
used to using your DVR,
because you basically have to
decide which guide you want.
Yes. Correct. It'll look differently
from your native guide. Right.
So if I hit, if
I had guide on my
DirecTV, I get this DirecTV
menu. And if I hit
guide on the Xbox, I
get an Xbox menu, but
you helped work on the
Comcast app. Now, would that
be an app that would
make my Xbox at DVR?
Or what does that app,
like? What does it, what
does an app from a
TV provider provide to the
Xbox? Well, the largest feature
We're adding for that app
is very similar to the
Xbox three 60 app that
we had as well, titled
Xfinity. And that basically gives
you access to the on
demand catalog. So you'd log
in one time with your
gamer tag, which is then
linked to your Comcast account
and sure that other platforms
handle this very similarly. And
then from there, we're just
passing a token back and
forth between your device and
Comcast that says I'm David
Voiles and I have access
to HBO stars or whatever
networks you prefer. And this
way it opens up that
content to you. So if
you want to watch a
movie or television show that
was on previously, you have
access to all of them.
So it's like, it's like
Netflix or Amazon or any
of the on demand systems,
but it's specific to that
company. So it's the Comcast
on demand experience. Yes, Exactly.
So I don't think any
of these apps cost any
additional money. It's really just
more added value onto what
you already have for your
cable program. Hmm. So then
if you had like a
set top box, you may
or may not have on
demand on demand experiences. This
could augment it, like by
having an Xbox, you'd be
like, Oh, look, I have
Comcast. I have on demand.
Suddenly I have more than
I have. That's right. Yeah.
So there, there really two
benefits to having it. The
first is the movies or
titles that are gonna be
available to you because content
providers look at cable boxes
as one form of media.
And they look at digital
devices such as your X-Box
as a different form of
content. So some movies may
only be available on one
or the other. So that's
one large reason why we
do that. Yeah. It's been
an interesting to watch the
Xbox and boxes like it
try to take over the
living room because I think
we, the consumer expects that
one day a, a Comcast
or a DirecTV is going
to show up and no
longer have a cable box.
Like they would no longer
be a Comcast box or
even Motorola of generic silver
box. They would just hand
me an Xbox and say,
here you go, this is
now your cable box. Yeah.
Yeah. It's funny because you
think that they would be
competitors in the same market
and that, you know, Xbox
has its own movie and
video streaming service. And so
does Comcast. So it's a,
it's funny, you see them
kind of go back and
forth, but I think we're
very far from having a
cable box less future. Yeah.
There's always going to be
some kind of box I'm
afraid now. I assume you
have an Xbox one. Yes,
I do. Yeah. Do you
have Comcast? Yes, I do.
Okay. So when one of
the things that I think
is the most amazing about
the Xbox one that I've
been really impressed with is
this idea of HTMI pass
through. Like, I remember early
attempts at HTMI pass through
just being kind of lame.
And what they would do
is they would like put
a big pink square up
on the screen, and then
they would detect where the
pink square was. And then
they would overlay the, not
the Xbox, but this is
like people who did this,
like the hodgepodge card and
things like that. They were
to overlay the content over
that. And then if you
move the window fast enough,
you could see the pink,
Really what that was is
the, the handshake that goes
back and forth between devices
to make sure that you
have DRM going between the
two of them. So it's
largely the content providers that
require that. Yeah. But On
the Xbox one, it is
absolutely seamless, seamless. It's perfect.
And it's getting to the
point now where the frame
rate on the on demand
stuff, like the stuff that
you see from Comcast is
so high. It's so good
quality that you really can't
tell whether you're watching on
demand or whether you're watching
live HTMI. Yeah, exactly. So,
I mean, even in my
home, we have our Comcast
cable box plugged directly into
Xbox and largely that's because
we had one button on
the Xbox and it turns
on my receiver, my television
and my cable box. Right.
Which is really weird for
people to like see for
the first time, because it's
sending IRR. I'm just, again,
I don't know anything more
than anyone else. So even
though I worked for Microsoft
for the listeners, I work
in the Azure to group.
So I literally only know
about what I learn on
like the verge, when I,
so from an Xbox perspective,
I have no inside information
of any kind. I know
what I can see by
observing it. So I plugged
it in and it comes
with the connect and the
connect sits right there. And
I noticed that the connect
is, is sending out IRR.
Like the connect is not
just sending out IRR to
detect whether or not I'm
there. Yes. But it's sending
out the CO's and it's
the IRR blaster, I think.
But I really haven't like
nothing to back this up.
I think that the game
pad may do the same
as well. And the only
reason I have that hunch
is because my connects is
above my television and all
of my immediate devices are
beneath my TV and a
small closet or not in
the closet. They're not exposed
to the Xbox, we'll say.
So when I do sit
in front of the TV,
I have my remote in
hand, my game pad, and
it's pointing back to my
devices. So I'm thinking, but
I really have nothing to
back this up that it
also shoots out IRR. I,
I know that it has,
I are on it. And
I know that it has
to in there kind of
offset and you can see
them. And one of the
things that you can do
is if you have an
old style video recorder, like
a, like a super eight
or any kind of VHS
point the camera at the
IRR emitter, and you will
actually be able to see
the infrared light, this is
how you can detect that
kind of stuff. So the
question is that you and
I are kind of proposing,
is that, is it blasting
out the IRR code to
like turn on the TV
or change channels from both
the connect and the, and
the remote controller, or is
the controller I are used
for something else. I know
that they use the controller.
I are to pair the
two. So in the old
days you had to like
push a button here and
push a button there, and
then it would go and
like RF and go weren't
weren't right. And then try
to like detect. Now it
can, it can see it
as this IRR, They're able
to do this. So seamlessly
kind of blew me away
as well, because I'd previously
worked in the audio visual
industry in Manhattan and launch
tech had a number of
great devices, but there's a
lot of programming work on
the backend for someone to
figure out how all of
these devices are paired together
and the unique codes for
each one of them. Yeah.
It was really seamless. You
turn it on and you
say, I have a Samsung.
And then it says to
the TV, just turn off.
And you're like, yeah. And
like, all right, we know
which one it is really
in the old days, you
had to get a book
and you had to like
type in a code at
the back. It was a
whole thing. So yeah, it,
it turns on my TV,
the Xbox, the onco, like
all the different diverse devices,
it turns them on. And
it actually, it's an instant
on mode. So I just
say Xbox on. And then
it turns everything on automatically,
which is great. So I
just walk in and say,
Xbox on the, and then
I hooked up my Logitech
harmony remote control. Okay. Yeah.
I still use one of
those as well. Fantastic. And
I taught it all about
the Xbox. That has actually
been the only if there's
one bad thing, the only
difficult thing is the, the
wife doesn't know when the
up, down arrows control the
DirecTV or when they control
the, The Xbox. Yeah. We
have the same issue in
my house, too. Good of
a learning curve on that
end. But that's a bit
of a first world problem,
right? I mean, that's just
the, the situation you have
when you have so many
electronic devices in one room.
Now, from what I read
online, you know, the Xbox
is running some flavor of,
of windows. It clearly looks
and feels like windows. And
if you've got a windows
phone or windows eight machine,
the dashboard feels very comfortable.
And I know on windows,
I can write applications in
HTML and JavaScript. Can I
do the same thing? And
I write a JavaScript, HTML,
HTML, five application on an
Xbox. Yes. So in a
September, Microsoft had revealed that
you can use HTML five
for apps. I haven't heard
any word about games, but
apps for your Xbox one.
So specifically, that's what we
used for, for Xfinity app,
a Comcast it's really, It
would be smooth. Like I
know that people, when they
think of an HTML five
app, they think of, Oh,
well, they're just going to
put internet Explorer, full screen.
And then, Yeah. And that's
not the case, not the
same. It's not the same
as it. No, no, not
at all. I mean, when
I was writing work there,
it had nothing to do
with internet Explorer. You're essentially
what Microsoft is doing is
exposing, this is the same
on windows eight. They're exposing
many, if not all of
the windows, eight API, just
via JavaScript. And this is
making the transition easier for
web developers to then come
over instead of having to
write native code everywhere. When
you were writing, when you're
writing the, the Comcast app,
I assume you're bringing in
libraries that are, X-Box one
specific JavaScript libraries. And then
that's how you, you, you
will then call them. Or
are you saying document dot
something and then accessing the
Xbox? Yes, yes, exactly. So
everything that's available through whatever
native libraries, whether it's C
plus plus or C sharp,
you may use on windows
eight, those same things are
API are available to JavaScript
developers. So how does that
work? You're looking at the
Xbox one documentation that you've
got available to you as
a textbox box one developer,
and you see some API
and maybe you find some
sample code in C plus
plus. Yes. Do you say,
Oh, I can use, I
can call that. Yeah, you
can just call anything. They
essentially have an equivalent. They
have, basically, if you're writing
on a windows eight, you'd
have, when dot, JS, and
Xbox has the same version.
I don't want to go
into any details about that,
but yeah, whatever you have
for JavaScript developer on windows
eight, you have on Xbox
one. So conceptually the layering
idea of, of wind JS
as a way to expose
native APIs to JavaScript or
are there Yep. So that's
why I suggest for anyone
who has even a hunch
for wanting to make something
for Xbox one, right. For
windows eight, that is the
best place to get started
without a doubt. Seriously. Yeah,
absolutely. You have, if you
are thinking that when, when
I'm not sure what the
status of Xbox one apps,
like, if any, if an
indie apps can be made,
I dunno. I dunno. I
will. I assume that some
will hear about that, that
some coming up soon. But
my question is, you're saying
if I want to write
an app for Xbox one,
I don't have to wait.
I can write a wind
JS app on windows eight
as kind of practice and
be able to use much
of that code on the
Xbox. Absolutely. Absolutely. That same
goes for games too. So
when you wrote the, the,
the Comcast app where you
guys laying this out in
CSS and HTML and, and
yeah, so basically like the
layout of the structure of
the windows. Yes. Everything was
done in HTML for the
markup CSS or the styling
and JavaScript for animations and
a lot of the backend
work. So again, before I
had a dev kit, I
did all of this and
windows eight, got an idea
for what I'd be looking
for. They even provided us
with a windows eight version
to get up and running.
And if you can read
HTML and, you know, JavaScript
and anything about windows eight,
it's seamless to go over
from one project to the
other. How, how different were
they? I mean, is it
just straight when JS, or
did you have to like
abstract away some Xbox, one
specific things? Like, for example,
the controller for navigation and
things like that. Oh, I
mean, Microsoft handled all that
for us. I didn't have
to do any of the
controller work, especially on windows
eight, but I can't get
into too many details. But
what I can say is
that my going from doing
the Xbox three 60 work
to then going to X-Box
one, it was far, far
easier. The products were much
more organized. And as a
web developer, it was very
well documented and very, very
easy to make that transition.
Cool. Yeah. I was trying
to get a sense of,
like, I know when you
are looking at tiles or
lists of tiles on, on
windows, you can select them
with the mouse. You can
touch them or you can
move around with a keyboard.
So I'm presuming that it's
similar to a move around
with the D pad on
the, on the controller, on
an X. So the idea
of like selection and the
selection rectangle, it's just handled
for you on the Xbox.
That's correct. Okay. So you
don't have to worry about
like, Oh, do this with
the controller that is all
abstracted a built in piece
of input. Yep. So I
was basically writing a as
simple of an app as
I possibly could because fortunately
the Xbox libraries handle all
that difficult work. Yeah. Like
the, like the backend things,
the connect, the game pad,
they handle all of that.
So it made my job
extremely easy. It's not like
it's not low level. It's
not like for a little
bit, you're going in grabbing
input. It's just, you're writing
click handlers effectively. And that's
all you need to worry
about. Would hook up click
handlers. I would grab a
Jason object from our backend.
And it may be something
as simple as a list
of movies. Maybe it's a
hundred children's titles. I loop
through them as an array
and I can pull out
whatever information I want, whether
it's a picture, a list
of a cast or a
description. And when, if, if,
if you want to make
it so you can select
the items with connect. Yes.
Is that built in as
well? That's just another selection
API. In fact, they have
the connect to, I was
skeptical at first, but when
I finally used it for
myself, all my fears were
squashed because of how well
it works and how precise
it was. So we spent
quite a bit of time
playing with it and getting
used to it. And it
is available if you'd like
to add more features yourself.
But again, Microsoft handles all
that for us. So if
I didn't want to touch
it at all, it's not.
Yeah. It's definitely a, I
would recommend to people who
do have an Xbox one
to go through the gesture,
tutorial, you know, whatever tutorials
the system gives you, what
it prompts you for. Like,
Hey, you want to learn
about this? Cause the connect
is different. Like an Xbox
three 60, you hold your
hand there and you wait
for it to spin. And
on the Xbox one, you
kind of like push in
intuitive and natural emotion guide
is, and then you can
scroll by kind of moving
forward, grabbing and then moving
over and then opening. So
it seems to see your
fingers more than, than the
other connections. Yeah. We were
all very surprised and it
worked very, very well. And
again, we don't have to
make any changes to it,
but if you're gonna really
make something that's going to
be innovative or stand out
for users and make their
experience better, you really are
encouraged to do that. And
they make it easier this
time around. Would that be
like a pinch to zoom
or a move? You know,
what kind of gestures might
you think you would want
to add to, to make
your app stand out? Even
if it's not something like
gestures, it may be something
like auditory cues that you
may might call out. I
forgot about that. Yeah. So
you can make Collie a
buy S for movie by
title or by a cast
member. So all of that
is, is open to you.
And again, like the, the
tools have improved exponentially over
what we're using. Did you
do that? Did you add
voice support too? I didn't,
I didn't have any time
at that moment before, right?
No. Okay. That's cool. Now
was the app done when
you left? Are they, are
they still working on it?
They sold a little bit
to go, but I mean,
to give you an idea
of how simple this process
was, I was the only
person working on this. So
it wasn't like we had
a team of people. I
mean, I think Comcast is
90,000 employees, but I was
the only person working on
it. So that, that gives
you an idea of how
simple it is to get
a project like that up
and going and, and a
Testament to how straight forward
The project is. So presumably
then if you are sitting
on top of a rich
API and you have great
web services at Comcast, that
would make your life easier.
Like you couldn't be the
only person, if the data
sources were not there available.
Exactly. Someone's got to do
the backend work and they
just had rich material for
me to pull from. So
I made it very easy,
but again, if you're a
web developer and you're used
to using the web stuff
at all, you'll have no
problem going over. Was it
Jason or XML or soap,
or like, what does a
Comcast backend API look like?
Like you said, get a
list of a hundred children.
Yeah. So they have all
kinds of different things. I
mean, again, I'm a, basically
a web developer. So for
the most part I would
pull on Jason and that
just worked best for me
personally. But again, like you
can use anything you'd really
want, And these, these APIs,
once you've authenticated, like I
guess they have to figure
out that you're a Comcast
person. Right. Like I don't
have Comcast. So if I
tried to log into this
app, somehow they'd know, I
didn't really have Comcast. Yes,
that's correct. So you've, you're
presented with a, a user
sign in screen and it'll
ask for your Comcast credentials,
which is generally a name
followed by.comcast.net. And it would
do a quick check to
say, Hey, this name doesn't
exist. So you're not going
to have access to the
app. So it's as simple
as that. Okay. And then
once they've logged in, they're
in and they're pretty much,
it's just seamless. It's always
there. I've used it, the
three 60 app, which has
been out for about a
year and a half. Now,
if you've used that it
would be the same experience
roughly, but with the new
styling of the Xbox one,
Is this the app that
you wrote? Is it a,
is it a rewrite of
the three 60 app or
is it an evolution of
the three 60 app? Absolutely.
An evolution. Yeah. So I
try to do my best
to merge with Comcast's current
UI is while still running
within the guidelines of Xbox
one. So, you know, often
you'll hear UX folks talk
about, is this a native
app or is this a,
is it an app that's
geared for this specific platform?
Or is this an app
that is branded with Comcast
or your specific company? So
I try to do my
best to merge the two
together. And I think it
turned out pretty well. Yeah.
That's gotta be a real
challenge to try to keep
the identity of the company
that you're writing the app
for. Like, you want it
to look and feel like
Comcast in the colors and
the fonts and the styles
and the general feel, cause
you want them to feel
like they have arrived at
a location. You know what
I mean? Like we are
in the Comcast world right
now, but at the same
time it should look like
every other. Yeah. And you
know, sometimes you can have
conflicts in that for a
number of reasons. Microsoft may
say, well, we have to
reserve this space in particular.
For example, if you ever
use connect, you'll see in
the top right corner, all
of your dialogue or gestures
appear there, you'll see a
little microphone pop-up. So I
couldn't populate that space with
any content. Whereas the guidelines
for a specific app or
UI for your company may
say, Hey, you've got to
fill us with something. So
you kind of have to
blend the best of both
worlds and keep both parties
satisfied. So you go and
you get your Jason, you
fill your lists up with
the movies and the pictures
that you want. You let
people scroll around and you
have different ways to search
and sort and filter and
do all that kind of
stuff. When you want to
play the movie, then is
it just a handled? I
mean, you just give it
a stream and a, a
size of the window and
it just it's done. Yeah.
Well, so the, the Xbox
will handle all the scaling
and the size for you.
I'm just pointing it towards
a stream and you could
write your own video player
if you wanted. But in
this case, Microsoft already has
one called player framework, which
is open source and it's
available on all Microsoft platforms.
Oh yeah. So they have
smooth streaming play, ready, DRN,
a number of other features
add there as well. So
that's when I started using,
but anyone can, can look
for it and it's open
for every device it's done
in C sharp, C plus
plus. And JavaScript. Do you
use player framework for that
stuff? Yes, absolutely. No sense
in reinventing the wheel, right.
Well, yeah. I mean, you've
got the scrubber, which is
the thing that lets use,
you know, seek around the
timing forward and backward. I
mean, it's, it's pretty rote
stuff. And presumably if everyone
uses the same framework, then
everyone will have a good
experience when they're playing the
video, Still are some things
that need to be added
at some point, for example,
a lot of people like
sail, the FCC doesn't do
anything well, in fact, they,
they do do quite a
bit, especially for the end
user. For example, accessibility is
a big concern for the
FCC and Comcast in general.
So put yourself in the
shoes of someone who can't
see or hear very well,
but they still wanna enjoy
content with their family. So
what the FCC has mandated
is that in 2014, this
year we have to have
audio or subtitles. I should
say that are customizable. That
was my next question. Yes.
I forgot what the actual
name of that mandate is
off the top of my
head, but it slows down
a few companies because you
have to get it done.
But once you get past
those hurdles, it makes the
experience more enjoyable for everybody,
Right? So those are presumably
some kind of data transformation
job. They need to make
sure that they're producing those
captions in the right format
and then feed them into
the player framework and they
look right, Totally. So you
may be watching a movie
that is, has a brightly
lit background, but it may
be difficult for a handicapped
person to see or someone
who's visually impaired. So they
need the ability to increase
the font size, to change
the colors or change the
shading behind it. So those
are some features that are
still being added to Microsoft
player framework. But I think
in the near future, they
will be far more enriched.
One of the other things
that I wanted to ask
you about is it, you
did a blog post on
your site about, about smart
glass. And like I said
before, you know, I worked
for the company, but I,
you know, I have iPhones
and iPads and you know,
I'm pretty much a mixed,
a mixed household. And I
feel like smart glass is
like one of these really
amazing things that like no
one knows about like people
who read the verge and
end gadget and Gizmodo know
about it. Yeah. But if
you like talk to a
random person who has an
Xbox, they don't know what
this is and that's a
shame cause it's pretty fricking
amazing. I agree. I agree.
Like you said, smart glass
is, it is incredible. It's
just, that's not really pushed
that much at the moment
or many developers just haven't
really got behind it. I
think largely because they're just
trying to get their apps
out at the moment and
better understand everything. But essentially
glass is a second screen
experience that has added value
or supplements what you're currently
doing. So it can, it's
basically a container that you
can download from the app
store for whichever device you're
using. And it then contains
and harnesses, a website that
you'd built. I say website
loosely. And that essentially all
it's doing is pointing to
our URL with again, HTML,
JavaScript, and CSS. So for
example, if I was going
to turn on the Comcast
Xfinity app, as soon as
I launched that, and it
notices that I have a
second screen device, like my
mum mobile phone, and I
also have smart glass installed
on it, it'll start the
explanatory second screen experience on
my phone as well. And
what does that, do you
have that, does that exist?
Yes, I was working on
that as well. Okay. What
does it do? What do
I get on my phone
or my tablet? If I'm
playing Xfinity, It allowed you
to, again, browse the video
on demand catalog without interrupting
the experience of what was
currently on screen. So, Okay.
So you're watching a movie
and still going through the
catalog. That's right. So it
adds features like basically I'd
sit down my family, watch
a movie and thought interrupting
their experience. I can pick
different movies while still having
a movie playing. But additionally,
I had a little pullout
for a remote. So you
hit a button, the top
left corner and have all
the buttons and functions that
were available to your Xbox
controller. In addition to a
little scrub bar that worked
in real time and a,
an avatar. So had your
name and your avatar kind
of dancing back and forth
on the remote. That's awesome.
I, the thing that my
first experience to that made
me realize that I want
to play, this was the
dead rising game. It's the
zombie game and I've got
an iPad. And when I
run the iPad smart glass
app, while dead rising is
on you get a map,
right? Oh my goodness. It
completely changes the way that
you think about what you're
doing. Like I'll put the
map on my, on my
knee or my lap. And
it gives you this kind
of heads up display, you
know what it's like picture
and picture. You can put
it anywhere you want, and
you could even have a
second person sitting next to
you like playing along in
the sense of they're on
the map, they're looking at
your inventory, they're moving around
the app, telling you stuff,
You'd get calls from, you
know, NPCs and things like
that. Well, that's, what's so
brilliant about the way that
the dead rising folks did
it is that they added
exclusive content that wouldn't, you
wouldn't get, unless you had
smart glass, right? So you
get the it's awesome. They
treat it like a phone.
So you get cell phone
calls from other characters in
the game, like, go help
me, you know? Yeah. There
was really, I believe that
they have done the best
job of exhibiting exactly what
smart glass can do. And
again, it was very, very
easy to write for most
of this is actually available
publicly on channel nine. I
know we have quite a
bit there, but it was
revealed to fill 2012. And
again, this is a, a
JavaScript API that exposes all
the device capabilities of the
current device you're using. So
for example, if I'm using
a windows phone, windows, eight
iPhone or Android, I can
use the accelerometer gyroscope, haptic.
That is all available to
me through a very, very
simple JavaScript API. So you're
not having to do any
of that yourself and I'm
platform agnostic. So I would
just I'd write a small
function for accelerometer and it
worked on every device. Didn't
matter what the screen looked
like, how big it was,
tablet or phone. And yeah,
I think I would love
to see more developers take
advantage of this in particular
with games. Yeah, definitely. So
it's more than just a,
we're going to open up
a frame and go to
a website. I mean, it
is, it's a little kind
of runtime for your application.
Runs on Android runs on
windows, phone runs on iPad.
Yeah, that's right. It extracts
all this stuff away. And
the example I like to
give and I'm waiting for
someone to bank on this
large idea, I would do
it myself. If I have
the time is I picture
a time when I'm playing
Dungeons dragons with friends and
on the dungeon master with
my smart glass device. And
all my other friends are
playing with the game pads
on the console. So this
way I can spawn creatures
or set up new quests
or, you know, throw roadblocks
in their way from my
screen without them ever having
to see anything. So that's
cool. Cool. Yeah. So I'm
still waiting for someone to
come by and really create
that experience for us. I
thought it would be neat
to have a kind of
a squad based game, like
a call of duty or
something where you would you'd
have the, the pad would
be like, as if you
were in the game as
if you're really there, you
pull the thing out in
the, you like draw a
line, right. You guys go
over here and I'll meet
you there. So you'd like,
it's kinda like, you know,
like Madden F NFL, right.
The way he used to
draw on the screen, you
know, just, you know, go
here, button left and I'll
meet you behind the warehouse.
Yeah. I think battlefield four
has that called commander or
something or commander app it's
similar, but I haven't really
dove that far into that.
I don't know if available
on smart class though. I
definitely cannot stress enough that
if anyone has an Xbox,
whether it be a three
60 or a, a one
to get the smart glass
on whatever device you have,
even literally last night, we
were playing music. We were
having dinner and I, the
kids were unable to concentrate
with the music going. So
I was able to pause
it from the phone. I
could see what song was
playing changed, tracks, pause the
music. So whatever experience you're
having, whether it be a
Comcast or whether it be
Netflix or whether it be,
you know, paddle field, you're
going to get a different
experience on the phone. And
it all happens automatically. And
it's all contextual works really,
really great. Even if there
wasn't an app written for
a specific title, the Microsoft
generic smart glass app is
available by default. So you
have all the buttons available
to you that you would
normally have on a game
pad. That's up, down left
writes fast forward rewind. And
like I said, information about
what's currently being played on
screen, so they couldn't make
it any easier for people.
And on your, on your
site, you talk a little
bit about this and it
seems like if you, again,
if you haven't got that
set up, you can still
simulate smart glass with Just
two devices and a website.
And then you use like
web sockets to talk between
them. Yes, exactly. So that's
how I got my start
before I received my deaf
kit was I had two
windows, eight devices, one was
pro the other one was
an RT tablet and using
web sockets, which is basically
just opening a connection between
two devices over your local
wifi. One says, Hey, I'm
open for a connection. The
other one says, Hey, I'm
going to send out a
message. And all you do
is pass a Jason object
back and forth. And I'm
a little if statement or
switch statement to discern what's
going on. So give you
a rough example. I had
a controller and I would
click on an image on
my mobile device. And that
image would then tell my
windows eight tablet or my
windows eight machine to point
to this URL and play
the movie. So it was
as simple as that. And
then I brought that concept
right over the smart glass
and a couple of days.
And how is, are you
talking to the, are you
talking on the same network
like you have? So the
web sockets works because you're
on the same wifi era,
basically talking back and forth
between the phone and the
tablet and the Xbox. You're
not going out onto the
internet. And then back in
that's correct. Smart glass handles
that a number of different
ways. That's one of the
ways and go up to
the cloud, come back down.
And then once that connection
is established, it then just
uses your local wifi. But
even if that wasn't available
and you just had a,
a 3g device without why
five, for whatever reason, that
works too, but web sockets
against simplifies all that and
handles it one way. That's
what I was wondering why,
cause it's almost impossibly fast
once you get it working
because we have no delay
at all. Yeah, exactly. And
I have to have, if
I'm using it as a
controller and I'm like swiping
on my phone in order
to move the tile around
it's instantaneous. And I was
like, this has to be
local. It has to be
talking about because you know,
what is the second someone
notices? I'm a bit of
July, you've really taken them
out of that experience and
ruined it for them. So
at that point they wouldn't
even want to use something
like that. So that's why
I often suggest to people
wanting to make games or
apps for, you know, the,
the new console generation I
suggest starting with windows eight,
getting that proven concept done.
And then you're really grabbing
Microsoft's attention because you're showing
and illustrating very new ways
of using their technology. Yeah,
definitely. So are you still
doing the indie dev podcast?
Yes, I do that once
every two weeks and I
interview independent developers for 30
minutes to get a bit
of background information about them.
So we start with how
they got their start with
development and finally leading up
to the current projects that
they're working on now. Okay,
cool. Well, I would definitely
encourage people. I'll put the
details in the show notes,
check out Dave's site. He's
got information on how to
get your app on the
Xbox one details on smart
glass, like we just talked
about. And then of course
you can check out his,
his new show, indie dev
podcast. Thanks so much for
chatting with me today, Dave.
Thanks for having me. It's
been a pleasure. This has
been another episode of Hanselminutes
and we'll see you again
next week.